---
title: 'The day the music died'
date: 
draft: true
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

I discovered Rick Beato on youtube with his "What Makes This Song Great" series, where he dissects classic rock songs. He walks through a lot of the music theory of the songs, the scales and chord progression that the artist is using, and the majority of it goes right over my head. I don't know what a mixolidean three quarters backflip scale is, but it's cool that Rick knows. He does bring a lot of unique insight as musician and I'm guessing some kind of recording engineer because he knows a lot about recording technique and gear. He was in a band at one point who toured with Megadeth, and on one of the last episodes he talks about his experience jamming with Marty Friedman every day for several weeks and had some [fascinating insights](https://youtu.be/oIDl_CvIn8A?t=787) about his style. What I find most fascinating about his videos and probably what keeps me coming back is that somehow he has access to the master tracks of these songs and has the ability to isolate different tracks. He'll play just the guitar, and then just the bass, then just the vocals, and then demonstrate how well the bass and drums work together, etc. It's shocking how often he's able to bring the forefront a sound or a tone that I've never heard despite having listened to the song hundreds of times. I normally don't peruse his other videos very often because they're very music theory and recording gear focused, which isn't, at this point in my life, very relevant (maybe someday). However, a video title caught my eye title "How Computers Ruined Rock Music". Now I know that rock music died sometime around 2010, and I know that computers have been involved heavily in the making of music since the early 2000's but I never put together the fact that computers may very well have caused the death of rock and roll. His video also made me suddenly realize why I've been super invested in 70's rock and roll lately, and I was still into punk rock past the age of 25, which by all accounts means I'm in it for life. According to Rick, almost all the rock music and certainly all rock music on the radio from the Aughties and Twenty-tens has been heavily "quantized", essentially meaning music is record by human beings and then imported into a software program like Pro-Tools, and somebody "fixes" beat imprecisions according to the time signature of the song. Rick demonstrates exactly this in his video with a popular radio hit. It was shocking and  eye opening how easily he was able to move sections of a song, add sections that didn't exist, sanitize it and fix any and all imperfections, almost without even having to think about it. The software does it all. Now why does this matter? Let me back up a bit. I think one of the reasons I've fallen in love with 70's rock and roll is that it's such a pure and endearing expression of humanity. It represents a certain jubilation and celebration of life and in the relatively nascent genre of rock and roll in the 70's there's almost a hint of naivety, as that of a 16 year who is jumps at the chance to drive to the grocery store because the simple act of driving a 30 mile an hour road is still exhilarating. The music is exciting, authentic, and is replete of wonderful imperfections which make it so visceral and real. [sabbath](https://youtu.be/aWnpkqyq5D4?t=198) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KSBhtSRDIMw https://youtu.be/aWnpkqyq5D4?t=198 exhilarating as hell, no safety nets