---
title: 'A Human Named Dallin'
date: 
draft: true
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

If you're obligated to see me once or twice a year, it might be nice for you to know what I'm up to, not that I think you care that much.

I would assume most people think that trading is buying some stock and hoping it goes up. That's not even close to what I do. I'll explain it at the highest level conceptually that I can. You can think of what I do as buying and selling insurance. This gives me immense flexibility in that I can make money when the market goes down or sideways, as well as when it goes up.

You could go out right now and sell an "insurance policy" for the S&P 500 index, meaning as long as the market doesn't trade below a certain level within a certain time frame, you will keep the premium that you accepted in exchange to be on the hook if the market crashes. Sounds risky, right? Of course it's risky; you're not getting paid for nothing (though I can't help but point out doing this has roughly the same risk profile as your 401k). If you were uncomfortable with that level of risk, you could buy a cheaper insurance policy at a lower level than the one you sold, thus capping your risk and still allowing you to make money on the difference. This is an example of how options trading, when trades are structured a certain way, can actually be one of the safest things you could possibly do in the market. You could put on a trade where your maximum loss is capped at 25 dollars, and in fact, this is the level of risk I would regularly take when I was learning how to do this.

As a quick example of how you could make money on the way down, suppose you bought an insurance policy on a house that you didn't actually own? If the house burns down, you would get the insurance payout, but if the house doesn't burn down then someone who sold you the policy keeps the money.

It might sound illegal and unethical when speaking in terms of real estate, but essentially this is what options are - insurance policies against the underlying asset such as a stock, whether or not you actually own that stock.

This is a grossly oversimplifed explanation, but I think the comparison works to at least understand the concept.

I struck out towards the beginning of the year to hone my own trading system; a trading system that will fit my personality, my appetite for risk, my capital constraints, and would effectively be a golden goose that will consistently lay golden eggs of income. My bare minimum goal was to end the at least 1 dollar profitable, and my stretch goal was to make 1,000 dollars. That may not sound like a lot, and it it isn't. But remember when I said that with options it's possible to take on small amounts of risk? The flipside of capped risk is capped reward. My point wasn't to try and get rich quick, my purpose was to develop a consistent trading system and then scale up once the system has been proven to be consistently profitable.