---
title: 'Oakland Mission chronicles - a day in the life'
date: Sun, 16 Apr 2017 21:48:31 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

  _I recently came across this mission letter I wrote toward the end of my mission and consists of some fairly mundane details, however, I thought it was a good demonstration of a day in the life in the mission - or at least my mission. I share this partially because it's an amusing retrospective but also because I want to add a bit of realism to the naively romanticized idea what missionary work is like that most prospective missionaries have, including myself once upon a time. _ _(horrible grammar included)._ We had a surprise when we had gotten the call that Elder F wa leaving, apparently Elder A was going to go to the Antioch 1st ward which is a bike area and he called and said he couldn't be on bike and so President Beck made changes in the transfers, it's likely there were some other situations too. So I was here just a couple weeks before I got a new companion but I feel like I've gotten to know the area pretty well in the time I've been here. Elder A is one of the first missionaries to come out of Myanmar (Burma), he's 30 years old, he has special permission from the 1st Presidency. From the 2nd or 3rd day he has been here he has been constantly angry, with no break to speak of. He's not just lazy but very headstrong. \[several sentences written and then scribbled out\] We had a good week, we added 2 solid investigators, one who is a young adult named Brian who I have a good feeling about. I think it's been a really good week. I kind of feel like I babysit the district, this morning I had to tell a companionship they need to stay together then had to go pick him up to take him to his companion who had gone off with a member. It's really funny in it's own way I guess. It's been raining non-stop for several days now, it's really the first time it's done that all winter. Well I love you. Take care! Love, Elder Coons