---
title: 'Top 100 songs 70-61  (2016)'
date: Sat, 31 Dec 2016 16:28:07 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

**Good Life - Weezer** I love the early Weezer songs because of how much honesty and personal history is infused in each song. This song was written after Weezer had a very successful debut album and Rivers Cuomo, the singer and main songwriter, decided being a rock star sucked. He decided instead of being a rockstar, he would attend Harvard. This is part of a batch of songs that were written in the middle of winter in Boston. This particular tune is one of a Harvard student wishing he could go back to "The Good Life". At this time he had to undergo surgery due to a defect he was born with in which one leg was shorter than the other, and so had to walk with a cane. He also had a big bushy beard and nobody ever recognized him as the singer for Weezer.

> When I look in the mirror I can't believe what I see Tell me, who's that funky dude Staring back at me Broken, beaten down Can't even get around Without an old-man cane I fall and hit the ground Shivering in the cold I'm bitter and alone Excuse the bitching I shouldn't complain I should have no feeling Cos feeling is pain As everything I need Is denied me And everything I want Is taken away from me But who do I got to blame? Nobody but me And I don't wanna be an old man anymore It's been a year or two since I was out on the floor Shaking booty, making sweet love all the night It's time I got back to the good life It's time I got back, it's time I got back And I don't even know how I got off the track I wanna go back, yeah!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkroIXktjgE **Recovering the Opposable Thumb - The Lawrence Arms** This song as a great narrative arc. It starts off with Brendan Kelley almost morosely singing to the backdrop of a non-distorted guitar (as if he's recovering from a hangover?), then the band jumps in and the song takes a hash, urgent, almost angry tone, which transitions to the soaring anthem of the chorus. Those dual vocals where Brendan and Chris sing together make for a dynamic, harsh, yet upbeat song. **100 Resolutions - The Lawrence Arms/Sundowner** The Lawrence Arms is more punky and harsh, and the Sundowner version is a soft, soulful, acoustic version. I like them both.

> Another stupid clumsy story. More accidental aspirations. Another explosion of silence. I think I'm going deaf, or maybe I'm just hearing less. This year I'll try to only listen to myself. This year I'll try not to think too much. This year I'll try to stand up for myself. This year I'll live like I've never lived before, this is my year for sure. I've got 100 resolutions, but I've got no solutions. I've got one song I write 100 times. And only a dozen or so rhymes.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RGVQ-VqmLKI   **Hurt - Johnny Cash** I'm amazed at how emotional this Nine Inch Nails cover is and how perfectly it fits the man in black. If you haven't seen the video, watch it! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vt1Pwfnh5pc **Jumping the Shark** I love this song for it's soaring, anthemic chorus which I believe captures beautifully and perfectly the emotion of wanting to move on from past mistakes and regrets.

> I fought with all of my teachers I fought with all of my friends I fought with the vices and sweating and shakes I'm not going back there again. No, I'm not going back there again.
> 
> Tonight, tonight I'm walkin' away. Tonight, tonight I'm walkin' away. I don't want to hear about old days - What are we doing today? Fake memories, they don't impress me. The old times were never that great.
> 
> We got the whole city Before us Tonight, tonight we're walkin' away And I wanna bury The past Tonight, tonight we're walking away With bottles and dancing With whiskey and love Let's drink to the death of regret

**Noise Complaint - Big D and the Kids Table** Now this is a party song. This is a fast paced, fun as hell Ska song with almost a Swing feel about having fun, making noise and bothering your neighbors. I like your neighbour but your neighbour don't like me!

> Sixty feet stomping (Noise Complaint!) Yeah the souped-up vinyl spinning (Noise Complaint!) Well laughing is a reason (Noise Complaint!) We're all spaz cap drinking (Noise Complaint!) Well it's a sure shot, we can't be stopped Twenty bucks says there's a noise complaint Tearing down the curtains (Noise Complaint!) We're just blowing out the speakers (Noise Complaint!) You know the neighbors pound the floorboards (Noise Complaint!) Yeah, this party ain't no secret (Noise Complaint!) Well it's a sure shot, we can't be stopped Yeah alright yeah there's a noise complaint, Oi! Police rack the front door (Noise Complaint!) Then all them girls hit the closet (Noise Complaint!) You know I'm underneath the bed now (Noise Complaint!) It's just a chance for naughty smooching (Noise Complaint!) Well it's a sure shot, we can't be stopped We're sorry officer 'bout the noise complaint Frigging in the rigging (Noise Complaint!) Yeah there's smoggin' in my noggin' (Noise Complaint!) We're all playing back seat bingo (Noise Complaint!) Are you hip to my lingo (Noise Complaint!) Well it's a sure shot, we can't be stopped Back it up kid there's a noise complaint, Oi!

You owe it to yourself to check out this song: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lxGH2h2paY0   **Shining On - Big D and the Kids Table** This is why I love the format of an album. This is the next track after Noise Complaint, which has a totally different feel to it. The video actually depicts this song as being the morning after the crazy party. It's a slow, strolling about being carefree and having fun despite life not always going perfectly.

> But I can't help from just smiling When that damn sun is shinning on Hell, It's just Shinning down all over me No, I can't help but just smile While that damn sun is shining on Dang, it's just shining down Down over me

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VUCtZn-INGo **Kept By Bees - Future of the Left** The drums start banging and then come some very bizarre lyrics I've ever heard. Even the style of the singing itself makes you wonder if these guys don't have a screw loose..and I love it.

> There's nothing like being owned Kept by bees in a jelly mold Brought out on special occasions Served with black entertainment Measured by the size of the rash minus income Kept by bees in a glass case Next to Atlantis, rendered badly with my oil paints Trapped by ESP in the darkness All those guys, they just want a part in your story

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M5Jp9cisyMU **Small Bones Small Bodies - Future of the Left** Another bizarre Future of the Left banger. And a banger it is.

> Small bones small bodies, sink into semantics The slightest excuse - the tiniest exo-skeleton She said, the fossil, it sets such a standard Forgetting the reason - small bones, bigger problems With this, I miss you, I finally admit that And beg forgiveness, my finest exo-skeleton I am the fossil, we are the fossil, that beg forgiveness Small bones small bodies

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nxdBUXQfpUg **Career Opportunities - The Clash** I love the Clash but I sometimes wish they were a little more snotty. This song delivers the attitude which is why I put it in my top 100.

> They offered me the office, offered me the shop They said I'd better take anything they'd got Do you wanna make tea at the BBC? Do you wanna be, do you really wanna be a cop?
> 
> Career opportunities, the ones that never knock Every job they offer you is to keep you out the dock Career opportunities, the ones that never knock
> 
> I hate the army and I hate the RAF I don't wanna go fighting in the tropical heat I hate the civil service rules I won't open letter bombs for you
> 
> Career opportunities, the ones that never knock Every job they offer you is to keep you out the dock Career opportunities, the ones that never knock

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MsE5NAAU39k